---
title: "Current projects"
permalink: /Research/
---
<p style="font-size:15px"> Below you will find my ongoing. These projects are work in progress. You are welcome to reach out for more info. For more developed work see the "Under review" section. </p>


<h2> Distributive Politics in Competitive Vote Markets -- Evidence from Uganda </h2>
with Horacio Larreguy

<p style="font-size:14px"> Does political competition deter clientelism by encouraging politicians to rely on public goods provision? While local public goods, in theory, is a more cost-effective strategy to generate political support among large groups, studies have found that political competition intensifies clientelism. This paper studies the question in Uganda where clientelism is widespread and political competition between candidates is increasing. We rely on the universe of public expenses, down to village-level, generated by national and sub-national government between 2012 and 2018 (N=380,000). The official voter registers allow us to link villages to their respective polling station electoral results. The extent of clientelism is measured using a high density survey (N=30,000) collected during the 2016 general elections campaign. We identify effects of local political competition using a shift-share instrument leveraging how positive shifts in NRM’s nationwide popularity increase local political competition in opposition districts, but decrease political competition in regime strongholds. </p>

<h2> Broadcasting Pro-Regime Support: The Effect of Local Radio Coverage on 2021 Electoral Results in Uganda </h2> with Camila Blanes, Corbin Duncan and Horacio Larreguy

<p style="font-size:14px"> One way authoritarian regimes win elections is by controlling the media. How does partisan media influence electoral support? And how effectively can autocratic regimes control coverage? We study these questions in Uganda's 2021 general election where the importance of media, namely radio, for voter mobilization was amplified by the Covid19-pandemic and the not uniformly enforced ban on ground campaigning. We estimate the local coverage of radio stations ($N=252$) relying on transmitter characteristics and accounting for local topography. We measure individual radio stations' partisanship by 1) manually coding ownership data, and 2) training a machine learning model on social media posts. We geo-code polling station administrative data ($N=34,684$) and merge it with local radio coverage. Results suggest that 1) opposition media positively affects opposition, but hurts regime, electoral prospects 2) but only in the 2021, not the 2016, elections 3) and incumbents respond to this by strategically (and successfully) distributing broadcasting licenses to silence opposition-friendly coverage. </p>


<h2> Correcting Misperceptions with Base Rate Information: Evidence from a Field Experiment in Online Local Media </h2>
with Asmus Leth Olsen

<p style="font-size:14px"> News media’s reporting of episodic information biases citizens' beliefs about the world, because citizens infer based on local individual instances. Can a changed news coverage correct citizen misperceptions? We answer this question through a field-experiment addressing the main source of episodic information on burglaries in Denmark: local news media. We partnered up with a media conglomerate, publishing 63 news papers across 334 cities. In a random subset of zip codes, we place adds showing the factual decline in burglary rates in every reader's respective municipality (totaling 1 million). The scale of our add buy guarantees that every visitor, for one week, is exposed to our information. The add is placed around every crime story and on every news sites’ home page and is posted by a non-for-profit crime prevention collaboration.  In the week preceding our intervention and five weeks after, we measure outcomes through an unrelated add (totaling 1 million) quizzing readers on their municipality and posted by a well-known survey company. As the readers allowed to see the quiz-add on any given day are drawn at random, we study the durability of effects over time. </p>

<h2> Choosing Quality Over Composition - A Field-Experiment to Improve the School-Accountability Mechanism </h2>
with Asmus Leth Olsen

<p style="font-size:14px"> Citizens are increasingly offered a choice of public service provider. What determines this choice? When users prioritize performance, choice mechanisms hold providers accountable. However, with respect to school choice, parents have been found to prioritize pupil composition over school performance. We device a field experiment to improve the school-accountability mechanism. We randomly assign parents with pre-school children (N=20,000) to information conditions describing their local schools. The intervention takes the shape of personally addressed envelopes containing factual information on (a) performance (b) pupil composition, including race, education, and income composition, or (c) a combination, and we study effects on actual school choice identified in the administrative registers. Through pre- and post-intervention surveys, we furthermore study how parents reason about information conflicting with their priors over school quality. Our findings imply that factual information is vital to ensure that competition in the market for public services holds providers accountable, thereby improving overall service quality. </p>


<h2> Speaking from Personal Experience with Public Services - Effect of Personal Experience on Satisfaction  </h2>
with Asmus Leth Olsen

<p style="font-size:14px"> We study the effects of personal experience with the public sector on satisfaction and higher-order inferences (e.g., responsibility and policy) in the realm of primary education. Specifically, we study how parents’ inferences about primary schools are affected when a child is enrolled at a school and the parents as a consequence have frequent encounters with said school. While the literature suggests that personal experience positively affects satisfaction, studies are challenged by issues of selection into public service usage versus non-usage. We study satisfaction with the public school specifically. We field a high-powered two-panel survey of parents to children in the pre-school and early school age (N=20.000). To remedy challenges to causality, we identify effects of personal experience in two ways. First, in a regression-discontinuity framework we exploit that Danish pupils begin school in the year they turn five, making December 31 a cutoff date assigning children to begin school in the current or subsequent year. Second, surveying parents twice we take advantage of the changed school enrollment status over time in a difference-in-differences framework. </p>
